feat: Add `otelcol.exporter.googlecloud` component for exporting metrics/traces/logs to Google Cloud (#3140)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/reference/components/otelcol/otelcol.exporter.googlecloud.md

| `error_reporting_type`        | `bool`         | Enables automatically parsing error logs to a JSON payload containing the type value for GCP Error Reporting.                                                                                              | `false`                      | no       |
| `grpc_pool_size`              | `number`       | Sets the size of the connection pool in the GCP client.                                                                                                                                                    | `1`                          | no       |
| `resource_filters`            | `list(object)` | If provided, resource attributes matching any filter is included in log labels. Can be defined by `prefix`, `regex`, or `prefix` AND `regex`. Each object must contain one of `prefix` or `regex` or both. | `[]`                         | no       |
| `resource_filters` > `prefix` | `string`       | Match resource keys by prefix.                                                                                                                                                                             | `""`                         | no       |

> | `resource_filters` > `regex`  | `string`       | Match resource keys by regular expression.                                                                                                                                                                 | `""`                         | no       |

Reviewer: Unless the type is a block, we typically do not list out its attributes, and the top level type is a `list(map(string))`. I don't love this convention and think something like this is valuable, but am looking for consistency. 

CC @clayton-cornell let me know if this is a new convention we're moving toward.

Reviewer 2: If the information is valuable to the users... we could/should definitely include it. The documentation is evolving all the time so new/better ways to explain things should always be considered.  If we do add it here I wonder how many other areas could use a refresh to add in this extra level of information?  I'm not sure how to identify this other than a search for `list(map(string))` and decide from there.

Author: I wasn't quite sure how to go about documenting this - it definitely is valuable for users rather than entirely omitting the `prefix` and `regex` documentation, but I wasn't sure how to format this.

| `skip_create_descriptor`               | `bool`         | If set to true, don't send metric descriptors to GCM.                                                                                                                                                                       | `false`                                                  | no       |
| `sum_of_squared_deviation`             | `bool`         | If true, enables calculation of an estimated sum of squared deviation. It's an estimate, and isn't exact.                                                                                                                   | `false`                                                  | no       |
| `use_insecure`                         | `bool`         | If true, disables gRPC client transport security. Only has effect if Endpoint isn't `""`.                                                                                                                                   | `false`                                                  | no       |

The > symbol indicates deeper levels of nesting.

> For example, `experimental_wal` > `directory` refers to a `directory` argument defined inside a `experimental_wal` block.

Reviewer: I believe we only use this kind of detail when describing block nesting, not when showing arguments of a block. The `experimental_wal` block should have its own section in the docs, should be shown in the `blocks` section, and its attributes should not be listed under the `metric` block.

CC  @clayton-cornell correct me if I'm wrong here.

Reviewer 2: This (nested info) looks like the same situation here (specifically lines 108 and 109)  as in the previous comment (lines 91 and 92) which lines up with why the nesting explanation is included here.

So.. do we include the extended attribute descriptions? or drop back to the current top-level only?

And the `experimental_wal` needing its own section... I didn't know it was its own block so missed that in the review.  If its a standalone block, then yes it definitely needs to be split into its own block description section.

Author: Thanks for pointing this out, I moved `metric` > `experimental_wal` block to its own section.
I wasn't 100% sure if I should make its own section for this little nesting block, but I'll go with the docs standards for now.

| `sum_of_squared_deviation`             | `bool`         | If true, enables calculation of an estimated sum of squared deviation. It's an estimate, and isn't exact.                                                                                                                   | `false`                                                  | no       |
| `use_insecure`                         | `bool`         | If true, disables gRPC client transport security. Only has effect if Endpoint isn't `""`.                                                                                                                                   | `false`                                                  | no       |

### `experimental_wal`

The following arguments are supported:

| Name          | Type     | Description                                                                              | Default | Required |
|---------------|----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|----------|

> | `directory`   | `string` | Path to local directory for the WAL file.                                                | `./`    | yes      |

Author: Perhaps it would be a good idea, but at the same time this block is marked as "experimental" and specifying config value seems to enable this "experimental" WAL feature.
So since this is an optional feature anyway, my suggestion is: Leave this as is and let users decide if they want to enable the experimental wal feature, and let them decide where to store the directory.

> if you have two googlecloud exporters, they will point to the same directory?

By default this experimental_wal feature is disabled, so if the user decides to use 2 of googlecloud components and specify the same directory for WAL for some reason, I guess they will, but that's unlikely.

> | `directory`   | `string` | Path to local directory for the WAL file.                                                | `./`    | yes      |

Reviewer 3: I was thinking about just getting rid of the directory attribute and keeping the block with just the attribute `max_backoff`. This way it's still disabled by default but if they want to enable it, it will be automatically stored in a proper location like the other components. As a user, I would prefer that all the data files are automatically structured and that I don't have to bother configuring the paths myself. 
The only value I see to let the users choose the directory is if they are migrating from the Otel collector to Alloy and they want to keep their WAL. They could still workaround it by moving their existing WAL to the proper location though.
But I'm fine leaving it like this if you want to match with upstream.

> | `directory`   | `string` | Path to local directory for the WAL file.                                                | `./`    | yes      |

Author: > As a user, I would prefer that all the data files are automatically structured and that I don't have to bother configuring the paths myself.

Ah I see. I agree in that I would rather like an opinionated configuration values that work out of the box rather than configuring everything by myself.
But in this case, I think it'd be better to keep this a simple wrapper of the upstream, both from a maintenance and user perspective. Keeping it consistent with the upstream should make this component's behavior more predictable, helping users understand it more easily. If this were a more "core" configuration value then maybe we could provide a more sensible default. However, the component works perfectly fine without this `experimental_wal` config, and it is named experimental after all.

> | `directory`   | `string` | Path to local directory for the WAL file.                                                | `./`    | yes      |

Reviewer 3: Fine by me, could you just add a comment in the code above the directory config saying that we considered using the storage path but decided to keep it as close as possible with upstream please?

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/otelcol/otelcol.exporter.googlecloud/

> description: Learn about otelcol.exporter.googlecloud
> aliases:
>   - ../otelcol.exporter.googlecloud/ # /docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/otelcol.exporter.googlecloud/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Learn about otelcol.exporter.googlecloud
```

This is a new topic. It never existed at the alias location, so we shouldn't add an alias to that location.

title: otelcol.exporter.googlecloud

> ---
> 
> 
> <span class="badge docs-labels__stage docs-labels__item">Community</span>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---

<span class="badge docs-labels__stage docs-labels__item">Community</span>
```

Removed extra CR/LF

> # otelcol.exporter.googlecloud

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# `otelcol.exporter.googlecloud`
```

Style change that is in-progress for the rest of the `otelcol` topics.  We can get this topic ready so it won't need as much of an edit later.

{{< docs/shared lookup="stability/community.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

`otelcol.exporter.googlecloud` accepts metrics, traces, and logs from other `otelcol` components and sends it to Google Cloud.

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
`otelcol.exporter.googlecloud` is a wrapper over the upstream OpenTelemetry Collector `googlecloud` exporter from the `otelcol-contrib`  distribution.
Bug reports or feature requests will be redirected to the upstream repository, if necessary.
{{< /admonition >}}

You can specify multiple `otelcol.exporter.googlecloud` components by giving them different labels.

## Usage

```alloy

> otelcol.exporter.googlecloud "LABEL" {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
otelcol.exporter.googlecloud "<LABEL>" {
```

}
```

### Authenticating

Refer to the original [Google Cloud Exporter][] document.

[Google Cloud Exporter]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/exporter/googlecloudexporter/README.md

## Arguments

> If there are any discrepancies between the argument descriptions here and those in the original [Google Cloud Exporter][] documentation,
> the original documentation takes precedence.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If there are any discrepancies between the argument descriptions here and those in the original [Google Cloud Exporter][] documentation, the original documentation takes precedence.
```

We can keep this as one line

> Argument descriptions are excerpted directly from the original documentation.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to state this?

Author: I wanted to be extra sure to note where I sourced the documentation from, because otherwise they could be seen as "original" work - but the words themselves are not actually my work, but of the original googlecloudexporter repo.

But I guess that's obvious enough - since this is a wrapper of the contrib library and the original doc link is already stated - and quite verbose for the readers. I'll remove this for now, but please let me know if you have other ideas.

Reviewer 2: I think we are probably OK here with leaving it out since it's just the arg descriptions... and you've made it clear to refer to the original GCP docs.

We have other components that are wrappers with similar situations (common args and common descriptions).

> The following arguments are supported:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the following arguments with `otelcol.exporter.googlecloud`:
```

| Name                        | Type     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Default                                       | Required |
|-----------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|----------|
| `project`                   | `string` | GCP project identifier.                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Fetch from credentials                        | no       |

> | `destination_project_quota` | `bool`   | Counts quota for traces and metrics against the project to which the data is sent (as opposed to the project associated with the Collector's service account. For example, when setting project_id or using multi-project export. | `false`                                       | no       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `destination_project_quota` | `bool`   | Counts quota for traces and metrics against the project to which the data is sent as opposed to the project associated with the Collector's service account. For example, when setting `project_id` or using multi-project export. | `false`                                       | no       |
```

| `user_agent`                | `string` | Override the user agent string sent on requests to Cloud Monitoring (currently only applies to metrics). Specify `{{version}}` to include the application version number.                                                         | `opentelemetry-collector-contrib {{version}}` | no       |

## Blocks

> The following blocks are supported inside the definition of `otelcol.exporter.googlecloud`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the following blocks with `otelcol.exporter.googlecloud`:
```

> | Hierarchy     | Block             | Description                                                                | Required |
> |---------------|-------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|
> | impersonate   | [impersonate][]   | Configuration for service account impersonation                            | no       |
> | metric        | [metric][]        | Configuration for sending metrics to Cloud Monitoring.                     | no       |
> | trace         | [trace][]         | Configuration for sending traces to Cloud Trace.                           | no       |
> | log           | [log][]           | Configuration for sending metrics to Cloud Logging.                        | no       |
> | sending_queue | [sending_queue][] | Configures batching of data before sending.                                | no       |
> | debug_metrics | [debug_metrics][] | Configures the metrics that this component generates to monitor its state. | no       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Block                            | Description                                                                | Required |
| -------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| [`debug_metrics`][debug_metrics] | Configures the metrics that this component generates to monitor its state. | no       |
| [`impersonate`][impersonate]     | Configuration for service account impersonation                            | no       |
| [`log`][log]                     | Configuration for sending metrics to Cloud Logging.                        | no       |
| [`metric`][metric]               | Configuration for sending metrics to Cloud Monitoring.                     | no       |
| [`sending_queue`][sending_queue] | Configures batching of data before sending.                                | no       |
| [`trace`][trace]                 | Configuration for sending traces to Cloud Trace.                           | no       |
```

Remove Hierarchy column. Add in-line code for block names and fix linking. Sort rows alphabetically.

> [impersonate]: #impersonate-block
> [metric]: #metric-block
> [trace]: #trace-block
> [log]: #log-block
> [sending_queue]: #sending_queue-block
> [debug_metrics]: #debug_metrics-block

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[impersonate]: #impersonate
[metric]: #metric
[trace]: #trace
[log]: #log
[sending_queue]: #sending_queue
[debug_metrics]: #debug_metrics
```

Remove `block` from link - headings are updated

> ### impersonate block

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `impersonate`
```

The following arguments are supported:

| Name               | Type           | Description                                                                                                                                                                                  | Default | Required |
|--------------------|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|----------|
| `target_principal` | `string`       | TargetPrincipal is the email address of the service account to impersonate.                                                                                                                  |         | yes      |

> | `subject`          | `string`       | Subject is the sub field of a JWT. This field should only be set if you wish to impersonate as a user. This feature is useful when using domain wide delegation.                             | `""`    | no       |
> | `delegates`        | `list(string)` | Delegates are the service account email addresses in a delegation chain. Each service account must be granted roles/iam.serviceAccountTokenCreator on the next service account in the chain. | `[]`    | no       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `delegates`        | `list(string)` | Delegates are the service account email addresses in a delegation chain. Each service account must be granted roles/iam.serviceAccountTokenCreator on the next service account in the chain. | `[]`    | no       |
| `subject`          | `string`       | Subject is the sub field of a JWT. This field should only be set if you wish to impersonate as a user. This feature is useful when using domain wide delegation.                             | `""`    | no       |
```

Required first, then optional. Alphabetic sorting.

> ### metric block

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `metric`
```

The following arguments are supported:

> | Name                                   | Type           | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Default                                                  | Required |
> |----------------------------------------|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|----------|
> | `prefix`                               | `string`       | The prefix to add to metrics.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | `workload.googleapis.com`                                | no       |
> | `endpoint`                             | `string`       | Endpoint where metric data is going to be sent to.                                                                                                                                                                                                    | `monitoring.googleapis.com:443`                          | no       |
> | `compression`                          | `string`       | Compression format for Metrics gRPC requests. Supported values: [`gzip`].                                                                                                                                                                             | `""` (no compression)                                    | no       |
> | `grpc_pool_size`                       | `number`       | Sets the size of the connection pool in the GCP client.                                                                                                                                                                                               | `1`                                                      | no       |
> | `use_insecure`                         | `bool`         | If true, disables gRPC client transport security. Only has effect if Endpoint is not "".                                                                                                                                                              | `false`                                                  | no       |
> | `known_domains`                        | `list(string)` | If a metric belongs to one of these domains it does not get a prefix.                                                                                                                                                                                 | `[googleapis.com, kubernetes.io, istio.io, knative.dev]` | no       |
> | `skip_create_descriptor`               | `bool`         | If set to true, do not send metric descriptors to GCM.                                                                                                                                                                                                | `false`                                                  | no       |
> | `instrumentation_library_labels`       | `bool`         | If true, set the instrumentation_source and instrumentation_version labels.                                                                                                                                                                           | `true`                                                   | no       |
> | `create_service_timeseries`            | `bool`         | If true, this will send all timeseries using `CreateServiceTimeSeries`. Implicitly, this sets `skip_create_descriptor` to true.                                                                                                                       | `false`                                                  | no       |
> | `create_metric_descriptor_buffer_size` | `number`       | Buffer size for the  channel which asynchronously calls CreateMetricDescriptor.                                                                                                                                                                       | `10`                                                     | no       |
> | `service_resource_labels`              | `bool`         | If true, the exporter will copy OTel's service.name, service.namespace, and service.instance.id resource attributes into the GCM timeseries metric labels.                                                                                            | `true`                                                   | no       |
> | `resource_filters`                     | `list(object)` | If provided, resource attributes matching any filter will be included in metric labels. Can be defined by `prefix`, `regex`, or `prefix` AND `regex`. Each object must contain one of `prefix` or `regex` or both.                                    | `[]`                                                     | no       |
> | `resource_filters.prefix`              | `string`       | Match resource keys by prefix.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | `""`                                                     | no       |
> | `resource_filters.regex`               | `string`       | Match resource keys by regex.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | `""`                                                     | no       |
> | `cumulative_normalization`             | `bool`         | If true, normalizes cumulative metrics without start times or with explicit reset points by subtracting subsequent points from the initial point. It is enabled by default. Since it caches starting points, it may result in increased memory usage. | `true`                                                   | no       |
> | `sum_of_squared_deviation`             | `bool`         | If true, enables calculation of an estimated sum of squared deviation. It is an estimate, and is not exact.                                                                                                                                           | `false`                                                  | no       |
> | `experimental_wal`                     | `list(object)` | If provided, enables use of a write ahead log for time series requests. Each object must contain `directory`                                                                                                                                          | `[]`                                                     | no       |
> | `experimental_wal` > `directory`       | `string`       | Path to local directory for WAL file.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | `./`                                                     | no       |
> | `experimental_wal` > `max_backoff`     | `string`       | Max duration to retry requests on network errors (`UNAVAILABLE` or `DEADLINE_EXCEEDED`).                                                                                                                                                              | `1h`                                                     | no       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Name                                   | Type           | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Default                                                  | Required |
| -------------------------------------- | -------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `compression`                          | `string`       | Compression format for Metrics gRPC requests. Supported values: [`gzip`].                                                                                                                                                   | `""` (no compression)                                    | no       |
| `create_metric_descriptor_buffer_size` | `number`       | Buffer size for the  channel which asynchronously calls CreateMetricDescriptor.                                                                                                                                             | `10`                                                     | no       |
| `create_service_timeseries`            | `bool`         | If true, this sends all timeseries using `CreateServiceTimeSeries`. Implicitly, this sets `skip_create_descriptor` to true.                                                                                                 | `false`                                                  | no       |
| `cumulative_normalization`             | `bool`         | If true, normalizes cumulative metrics without start times or with explicit reset points by subtracting subsequent points from the initial point. Since it caches starting points, it may result in increased memory usage. | `true`                                                   | no       |
| `endpoint`                             | `string`       | Endpoint where metric data is sent to.                                                                                                                                                                                      | `monitoring.googleapis.com:443`                          | no       |
| `experimental_wal`                     | `list(object)` | If provided, enables use of a write ahead log for time series requests. Each object must contain `directory`                                                                                                                | `[]`                                                     | no       |
| `experimental_wal` > `directory`       | `string`       | Path to local directory for the WAL file.                                                                                                                                                                                   | `./`                                                     | no       |
| `experimental_wal` > `max_backoff`     | `string`       | Max duration to retry requests on network errors (`UNAVAILABLE` or `DEADLINE_EXCEEDED`).                                                                                                                                    | `1h`                                                     | no       |
| `grpc_pool_size`                       | `number`       | Sets the size of the connection pool in the GCP client.                                                                                                                                                                     | `1`                                                      | no       |
| `instrumentation_library_labels`       | `bool`         | If true, set the `instrumentation_source` and `instrumentation_version` labels.                                                                                                                                             | `true`                                                   | no       |
| `known_domains`                        | `list(string)` | If a metric belongs to one of these domains it doesn't get a prefix.                                                                                                                                                        | `[googleapis.com, kubernetes.io, istio.io, knative.dev]` | no       |
| `prefix`                               | `string`       | The prefix to add to metrics.                                                                                                                                                                                               | `workload.googleapis.com`                                | no       |
| `resource_filters.prefix`              | `string`       | Match resource keys by prefix.                                                                                                                                                                                              | `""`                                                     | no       |
| `resource_filters.regex`               | `string`       | Match resource keys by regular expression.                                                                                                                                                                                  | `""`                                                     | no       |
| `resource_filters`                     | `list(object)` | If provided, resource attributes matching any filter is included in metric labels. Can be defined by `prefix`, `regex`, or `prefix` AND `regex`. Each object must contain one of `prefix` or `regex` or both.               | `[]`                                                     | no       |
| `service_resource_labels`              | `bool`         | If true, the exporter copies the OTel service.name, service.namespace, and service.instance.id resource attributes into the GCM timeseries metric labels.                                                                   | `true`                                                   | no       |
| `skip_create_descriptor`               | `bool`         | If set to true, don't send metric descriptors to GCM.                                                                                                                                                                       | `false`                                                  | no       |
| `sum_of_squared_deviation`             | `bool`         | If true, enables calculation of an estimated sum of squared deviation. It's an estimate, and isn't exact.                                                                                                                   | `false`                                                  | no       |
| `use_insecure`                         | `bool`         | If true, disables gRPC client transport security. Only has effect if Endpoint isn't `""`.                                                                                                                                   | `false`                                                  | no       |
```

Minor style edit. Sort rows alphabetically. Removed one redundant sentence about the default value.

> The `>` symbol indicates deeper levels of nesting. For example, `experimental_wal > directory` refers to a directory argument defined inside a experimental_wal block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The > symbol indicates deeper levels of nesting.
For example, `experimental_wal` > `directory` refers to a `directory` argument defined inside a `experimental_wal `block.
```

> ### trace block

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `trace`
```

> | Name                                 | Type           | Description                                                                                                                                                                                         | Default                         | Required |
> |--------------------------------------|----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|----------|
> | `endpoint`                           | `string`       | Endpoint where trace data is going to be sent to.                                                                                                                                                   | `cloudtrace.googleapis.com:443` | no       |
> | `grpc_pool_size`                     | `int`          | Sets the size of the connection pool in the GCP client. Defaults to a single connection.                                                                                                            | `1`                             | no       |
> | `use_insecure`                       | `bool`         | If true, disables gRPC client transport security. Only has effect if Endpoint is not "".                                                                                                            | `false`                         | no       |
> | `attribute_mappings`                 | `list(object)` | AttributeMappings determines how to map from OpenTelemetry attribute keys to Google Cloud Trace keys.  By default, it changes http and service keys so that they appear more prominently in the UI. | `[]`                            | no       |
> | `attribute_mappings` > `key`         | `string`       | Key is the OpenTelemetry attribute key                                                                                                                                                              | `""`                            | no       |
> | `attribute_mappings` > `replacement` | `string`       | Replacement is the attribute sent to Google Cloud Trace                                                                                                                                             | `""`                            | no       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Name                                 | Type           | Description                                                                                                                                                                      | Default                         | Required |
| ------------------------------------ | -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- | -------- |
| `attribute_mappings`                 | `list(object)` | Determines how to map from OpenTelemetry attribute keys to Google Cloud Trace keys. By default, it changes HTTP and service keys so that they appear more prominently in the UI. | `[]`                            | no       |
| `attribute_mappings` > `key`         | `string`       | The OpenTelemetry attribute key.                                                                                                                                                 | `""`                            | no       |
| `attribute_mappings` > `replacement` | `string`       | The attribute sent to Google Cloud Trace.                                                                                                                                        | `""`                            | no       |
| `endpoint`                           | `string`       | Endpoint where trace data is sent.                                                                                                                                               | `cloudtrace.googleapis.com:443` | no       |
| `grpc_pool_size`                     | `int`          | Sets the size of the connection pool in the GCP client. Defaults to a single connection.                                                                                         | `1`                             | no       |
| `use_insecure`                       | `bool`         | If true, disables gRPC client transport security. Only has effect if Endpoint isn't `""`.                                                                                        | `false`                         | no       |
```

> ### log block

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `log`
```

The following arguments are supported:

> | Name                          | Type           | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Default                      | Required |
> |-------------------------------|----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------|----------|
> | `endpoint`                    | `string`       | Endpoint where log data is going to be sent to.                                                                                                                                                                 | `logging.googleapis.com:443` | no       |
> | `compression`                 | `string`       | Compression format for Log gRPC requests. Supported values: [`gzip`].                                                                                                                                           | `""` (no compression)        | no       |
> | `grpc_pool_size`              | `number`       | Sets the size of the connection pool in the GCP client.                                                                                                                                                         | `1`                          | no       |
> | `use_insecure`                | `bool`         | If true, disables gRPC client transport security. Only has effect if Endpoint is not "".                                                                                                                        | `false`                      | no       |
> | `default_log_name`            | `string`       | Defines a default name for log entries. If left unset, and a log entry does not have the `gcp.log_name` attribute set, the exporter will return an error processing that entry.                                 | `""`                         | no       |
> | `resource_filters`            | `list(object)` | If provided, resource attributes matching any filter will be included in log labels. Can be defined by `prefix`, `regex`, or `prefix` AND `regex`. Each object must contain one of `prefix` or `regex` or both. | `[]`                         | no       |
> | `resource_filters` > `prefix` | `string`       | Match resource keys by prefix.                                                                                                                                                                                  | `""`                         | no       |
> | `resource_filters` > `regex`  | `string`       | Match resource keys by regex.                                                                                                                                                                                   | `""`                         | no       |
> | `service_resource_labels`     | `bool`         | If true, the exporter will copy OTel's service.name, service.namespace, and service.instance.id resource attributes into the GCM timeseries metric labels.                                                      | `true`                       | no       |
> | `error_reporting_type`        | `bool`         | ErrorReportingType enables automatically parsing error logs to a json payload containing the type value for GCP Error Reporting.                                                                                | `false`                      | no       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Name                          | Type           | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                | Default                      | Required |
| ----------------------------- | -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------- | -------- |
| `compression`                 | `string`       | Compression format for Log gRPC requests. Supported values: [`gzip`].                                                                                                                                      | `""` (no compression)        | no       |
| `default_log_name`            | `string`       | Defines a default name for log entries. If left unset, and a log entry doesn't have the `gcp.log_name` attribute set, the exporter returns an error processing that entry.                                 | `""`                         | no       |
| `endpoint`                    | `string`       | Endpoint where log data is sent.                                                                                                                                                                           | `logging.googleapis.com:443` | no       |
| `error_reporting_type`        | `bool`         | Enables automatically parsing error logs to a JSON payload containing the type value for GCP Error Reporting.                                                                                              | `false`                      | no       |
| `grpc_pool_size`              | `number`       | Sets the size of the connection pool in the GCP client.                                                                                                                                                    | `1`                          | no       |
| `resource_filters`            | `list(object)` | If provided, resource attributes matching any filter is included in log labels. Can be defined by `prefix`, `regex`, or `prefix` AND `regex`. Each object must contain one of `prefix` or `regex` or both. | `[]`                         | no       |
| `resource_filters` > `prefix` | `string`       | Match resource keys by prefix.                                                                                                                                                                             | `""`                         | no       |
| `resource_filters` > `regex`  | `string`       | Match resource keys by regular expression.                                                                                                                                                                 | `""`                         | no       |
| `service_resource_labels`     | `bool`         | If true, the exporter copies the OTel service.name, service.namespace, and service.instance.id resource attributes into the GCM timeseries metric labels.                                                  | `true`                       | no       |
| `use_insecure`                | `bool`         | If true, disables gRPC client transport security. Only has effect if Endpoint is not `""`.                                                                                                                 | `false`                      | no       |
```

> ### sending_queue block

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `sending_queue`
```

The `sending_queue` block configures an in-memory buffer of batches before data is sent to the HTTP server.

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/otelcol-queue-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

> ### debug_metrics block

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `debug_metrics`
```

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/otelcol-debug-metrics-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

| Name    | Type               | Description                                                 |
|---------|--------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| `input` | `otelcol.Consumer` | A value other components can use to send telemetry data to. |

`input` accepts `otelcol.Consumer` data for any telemetry signal (metrics, logs, or traces).

## Component health

> `otelcol.exporter.googlecloud` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid
> configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`otelcol.exporter.googlecloud` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid configuration.
```

## Debug information

> `otelcol.exporter.googlecloud` does not expose any component-specific debug
> information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`otelcol.exporter.googlecloud` doesn't expose any component-specific debug information.
```

## Example

> ### Logging

Reviewer 2: Do we need this extra heading layer?  I'd suggest we remove it. If, in the future, we add other examples we can add the H3 headings.

This example scrapes logs from local files through a receiver for conversion to OpenTelemetry format before finally sending them to Cloud Logging.

> Note that this configuration includes the recommended `memory_limiter` and `batch` plugins, which avoid high latency for reporting telemetry,
> and ensure that the collector itself will stay stable (not run out of memory) by dropping telemetry if needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This configuration includes the recommended `memory_limiter` and `batch` plugins, which avoid high latency for reporting telemetry, and ensure that the collector itself will stay stable (not run out of memory) by dropping telemetry if needed.
```
